# MarketModel-AgentBased
Analysing Consumer Behaviour in the Introduction of New Product ’A’ among Cross-Fit Athletes: An Agent-Based Modelling Approach(Anylogic)
In a competitive market analysing consumer behaviour plays an important role in developing optimal strategies for companies. Consumer behaviour refers to the decision-making process of consumers in acquiring, using, and discarding goods and services available in the market.Studying and predicting a consumer’s behaviour is a difficult feat as consumers don’t follow a set of rules. Consumers’ likes and dislikes depend on many factors and may even change over time. Consumers may be interested in some information but choose to ignore others. Consumers are influenced both internally and externally. Thus, using a traditional modelling approach is insufficient in capturing the complex system that is consumer behaviour. Hence, we use an Agent-Based Modelling (ABM) approach. ABMs accommodate complexities in one significant way: by representing a system’s components (agents) and their behaviours. Here agents are described as unique and autonomous entities that interact with each other, and their environment.
Therefore, an Agent-Based Modelling approach is adopted in this project to study consumer behaviour. Particularly, the behaviour of consumers when a new product “A” is introduced is studied. Such a study is significant in recognising the decision-making process of consumers, understanding how products should be further improved, identifying the most effective marketing strategies based on the situation, and, gaining deeper insights into the marketing dynamics and elaborating optimal strategies for companies.In this project, for simplicity, we have decided on a target set of consumers (cross-fit athletes) for whom this new product "A" (say, for example, a fitness app focused on cross-fit athletes, available world-wide on all app stores) has been introduced, the behaviour of these target consumers is studied using an Agent-Based Modelling approach.
